In the last video we left the various
components of the SDK downloading the
sources for Android 26 and the two
images for the emulators you see now
that that's finished I'm going to click
on finish there and what we want to do
now we need to start looking at the SDK
tools tab, we'll come up here and click on
SDK tools and next come down here and
click on show package details by
checking the checkbox. Now quite a lot of
stuff in this error is obsolete and you
certainly wouldn't want to install those
without a very good reason so most of
what we want should already be installed
but there may well be updates available
so check the rightmost column to see if
any components are showing us updates.
most likely there won't be initially if
you've just installed Android studio but
if you come back later you'll find that
then what most likely will be updates
over time and if updates are available
just make sure they're selected then
click apply to them to install them
before we add anything else but we have
a look down here the lists now we can
see that we've got not installer
installed there's nothing that says that
there's an update. Now first if you
scroll down a little bit in this section
here the Android SDK build tools we want
the highest version available and
they'll always appear at the bottom of
the list you can see 27.0.1 the
latest and highest number is installed
that's the latest version in other words
now if you've got a new or a later
version available than that then choose
that one instead and it should already
be installed if you've just installed
Android studio in any event. Now while we
were testing this we had some problems
with creating new projects now I'm not
going to go into all the details I said
probably won't make a lot of sense at
the moment but essentially Android
studio was selling the project API 226
so that means it needs the latest SDK
build tools in this case you can see
it's twenty six point zero point three,
so I'm going to select that also just to
make sure that we've got that selected
and ticked so that it's going to be
downloaded and again we don't need to do
anything with the latest version there
because that was already installed for
us now Google had fired separated the
Android emulator from the rest of the
platform tools so consequently we want
to make sure that it's our few things
are checked and if we scroll down and
have a look here.
So you've got Android emulator, Android
SDK platform tools and Android SDK tools
now those three should all be checked
which they are and they should all be
installed so you'd check those if they
aren't installed but on a new
installation of Android studio you
should find they were installed now the
documentation for Android SDK is
extremely useful and probably won't
already be installed and you can see in
my case it's not installed so I
definitely recommend taking that one so
let's do that, documentation for Android
studio. Now the next one we want is
Google Play services and that's this one
here you can play services as you can
see that's currently not installed so
I'm going to select that as well now
below that there's a Google USB driver
you'll need that on Windows and actually
it won't appear on Linux and Mac
computers and I'm recording this video
on a Mac so you can see that I haven't
got that in my list but if you're on a
Windows machine do make sure you select
the Google USB Driver otherwise you'll
have problems connecting your phone to
Android studi, now so we scroll down a
little bit more on Windows and Mac
computers the intel x86 emulator
accelerator hacks them down here should
probably be ticked already you can see
in my case it is ticked and marked or
since s is installed now if you had
problems installing xml earlier and
it's probably worth ticking it here that
way you can run the installer again now
if you manage to get VTX working in your
BIOS that is and there's a video in this
section of the course that explains that
if you did have problems with hexam so
after that as we scroll down a little
bit more this is big section down here
showing all sorts of versions of the
constraint layout library and there's
two parts to this there's the constraint
layout and also the solver for
constraint layout now we're going to be
using the constraint layout when
designing our app screens so we
certainly want to install this unless I
record this the latest version is one
point at 0.2 so I'm going to select that
so make sure you tick that one point 0.2
or whatever is the latest version for
both the constraint layout for Android
as well as the solver for constraint
layout, so I'll scroll that down there's
a one point 0.2 there so clicking there
as well again we're doing that if
they're not already installed in we can
see here that they and they
actually installed in this point in time.
Now the final two options at the bottom
of the screen should already be selected
and you can see the layer selected and
they have been installed already. Now if
they're not for any reason checked you
do want android support repository and
Google repository now if any of these
aren't available when you come to
install the components don't worry about it
and that's because Google changed things
a lot and you may find things like the
Google repository being included in the
android support repository for example
so install the ones that I've mentioned
and carry on if any don't exist alright
so at this point you've got everything
selected we can click on apply we get a
list of what's going to install I'm
going to click ok and that's before
Google the Android studio it's going to
download a few things from the Google
service which is done I'm going to click
on accept click on next and it's now
going to start downloading and
installing everything we've selected on
that screen so you can basically go back
to the SDK manager as often as you want
to install new components or delete ones
that have been replaced with newer
versions and if you forget to install
something it's not the end of the world
because you can come back here and
install it at your leisure now normally
you will actually get a pop-up from
Android studio itself where new versions
are available and you can just install
updates from there now if you're using
windows check to see if there's a google
USB driver component as I mentioned and
install that as well as you find it but
that's only on windows. Alright so
let's say leave this now installing the
various things and we'll come back once
that's finished so we can go on and do a
little bit more configuration.
Alright so I can see at this point now
it's actually finished the installation
so you can select finish there we can
click okay because we've done with this
Android SDK manager and we go back to
the welcome screen as you can see now
before we finish this video there are a
couple things to check what we want to
do is come down here and click on
configure well a click on the select
project defaults and then we want to
click on project structure and you want
to confirm your Android SDK location and
the JDK location you know if you already
had a different version of the JDK
installed perhaps because you're also
doing Java development or on an earlier
version then make sure that this is
actually set to use embedded JDK which
is what Google recommends and you can
see in my case that is checked so in
other words it's using the JDK that
comes bundled with Android studio
another separate version now with that
said uses of 32-bit operating systems
primarily Windows or Linux users will
need to change that, so only do the
following if you're running a 32-bit
version of Windows or Linux you've got a
64-bit version of Windows or a Mac leave
the JDK location set to use embedded JDK
but on a 32-bit system you would uncheck
this box here use embedded JDK and come
over here and click on the ellipsis the
three dots and you'd browse to your JDK
path. Now I don't have access to a 32-bit
Windows but you'll find the JDK path in
program files or Program Files x86 on a
Windows system so you should find a Java
or a JDK or a JRE something along those lines
so select that in that scenario now I'm
a 32-bit Ubuntu Linux system the path
will be something like slash USR slash
Lib slash JVM says Java dash 8 - Oracle.
Alright so I want everything set
correctly you can click on ok, in my case
I'm going to click on cancel because I
didn't need to make any changes
obviously clicking ok would save any
changes you made. Alright so in the next
video we're going to look at hexam and
the bios settings that you may need to
change but there's one more thing that
Windows users need to do though
so for Windows users,
click this start a new Android studio
project and accept all the defaults
until the project is created and opened
so they basically keep clicking next in
every screen watch out for the dialogue
that I'm about to show you on the next
slide so again this is for Windows users
only when creating your first project
you should get a dialog about Windows
Firewall blocking some features and you
can see this the sample image on the
screen so make sure you allow Java to
communicate on private networks and tick
public networks if it's ticked and it
used to be the default and tick private
networks before clicking allow access.
Now the dialog does say that allowing
access on public networks isn't
recommended so allow access on private
networks only. Now if you don't do this
you'll have problems adding libraries to
your projects and updating Android
studio, so it is very important so that
you tick the box to allow access on
private networks and because it's so
important I'm going to mention it again
and show the image on the screen again
when you see this dialog make sure you
tick the box marked private networks
it's recommended that you also uncheck
the public networks box but the
important thing here is that you must
allow access on private networks now
this dialog may also pop up again after
a Java update if it does that just
remember that you must have private
network access ticked. Alright so let's
end the video here and we'll move on to
the next one.